1200 BCE Origins of Homeric epic. (Bronze Age)
	Agamemnon - Mycenae (Mycenaean Empire)
	Iliad talks of great empires like the Mycenaean Empire
1000-800 "Dark Age"
800 BCE (maybe the Iliad and Odyssey were "done"?)
Conflicts in text that show that Odyssey people were poor

500s - Pisistratus was tyrant of Athens. Sponsored festivals: Panathenaia ("All-Athens Festival") 
	Contests- Singing poetry From Hippaarchus [228 b] "Recite them in relay"
	

300s - Plato, Athens

Argument #1
Homer must have been a single, awesome poet, because the Iliad is so perfect.

Argument #2
The Iliad is so perfect that i cannot possibly have been the work of a single poet.
-World without righting
-People sang songs about wars and heroes
-Illiterate people come up with ways to describe things poetically this lead to the ability to talk about things. Like Jazz working with a structure that helps keep everything different but similar and easy to create.
-Iliad word form seems to come from many different eras of greek language

Knossos Tablet sd4403 (c. 1450-1375 bce)
-list of chariots
-From very prosperous parts of greece.
-first time Greeks learned to write.
-Civilizations collapsed and Greeks didn't need to write things down. Required Scribes because language was too complicated.
-Liniar B was the language

After Dark Ages 800 BCE
-New alphabet that was easy to learn. Many people learned how to read and write.
-Busted potery was the scrap paper of the ancient world 

Textual Variation
-As you make copies of documents the variation increases until we see the printing press.

Compared to Iliad
Earliest Quotations - very differnt
Ptolemaic Editors - somewhat different
Midevial Manuscripts - Much more cohesive

This is very different from all other literature that was derived from a single author

Bysantine Manuscripts actually cite older scholars work. 
They also have notes on how the ancient greek lanuge works.
You can't figure out everything about homer with out knowing everything about the greek language.
There are still words with unknown origins

(Words could be totally mispelled just an example)
Aiantov - Even the greek scholars didn't know what the words meant. They just wrote down the accurate data.
Aiamno - Means well-fitted based on very old Linear B
Can fit into Iliad in place of Aiantov.

Verbal Tense
before... couldn't talk about things in the past as well.
now...
Can talk about the past, and the future
We - Write in present tense
Ancient Romans - used apistolarin perfect, wrote in past tense, from the perspective of the reader

At Furman - Describing something that happens in literature use the present tense by default.

Gospel according to John
In the beginning was th Word. And the word was with God. And the word was God.

Gospel according to Luke
With many people having undertaken to compile and account of those things that acme to pass among us, some having been eyewitnesses from the outset and others having [later] become servents of the Word, it seemed best also to me, my dear Theophilus, to narrate, in order, from the top, those things that have been revealed to us so that you might have confidence in the matters in which you have been instructed.

Very different ways of writing. Neither is right or wrong.
John - short sentences not telling you how their connected. Mysterious not clear.
Luke - long sentences. weaving together 14 different ideas. I'm the boss type idea.

Achilles would not give up his rage. The Trojans lose their leader, Hector. // perfectly reasonable way to say two ideas.
-Simple sentences that are still meaningful. (Hemmingway)
Achilles will not give up his rage, and so the Trojans lose their leader, Hector. // Taking charge telling the reader the logical consequences.
-Each is an independant clause, can stand by itself. 

Achilles is angry. Achilles cries to his mother.
Achilles is angry and so cries to his mother. // no comma because the subject is the same.
Achilles is angry, and so he cries to his mother. // requires comma because it's two independent clauses.

Achilles is angry; his mother is sympathetic. //Could easily be two sentences. Semicolon is okay when it replaces a period and for some reason doesn't need a stronger connection.
Achilles is angry and his mother is sympathetic. //Strong connection


